I thought today I'd start working on the face on the head.
I've already started pulling the eyes down so they're in line with the eyes of the character to take
a look at the mouth here.
Let me go over to the character images view and I'm going to press the three key here and if I hit the
Z key you can see the wire frame.
I've got optimal display turned on so I can see the original edges of the model.
We turn that off of course it will look very dense but I've already started pulling the eyes in or pulling
the eyes down you can see the eye loops here.
I've already begun pulling those down.
Let's take a look at the mouth and nose here.
I'm going to go to my sculped mode here and get that grab brush.
I think I'm just going to take the mouth here and move it down just a hair.
So it's more in line with the mouth on the character as well as the nose here too.
Something like that.
It doesn't need to be perfect.
I just want to get it down here in the general area.
So the head is pretty small compared to the reference images and that's fine.
We're going to begin pulling those up or sculpting out I should say.
All right.
Let's go back to our default view and take a look at that.
So that is generally where the mouth and the eyes and the nose will be placed.
But there's going to be a lot more volume to the head both on the sides and on the top.
Let's start just getting the head in the basic shape that we needed.
Creating the basic surfaces and planes.
I think what I want to do is first of all begin smoothing this out.
Actually I'm going to go to the pinch.
I mean I know I'm going to need that and then I can smooth by just pressing the shift key and I want
to begin smoothing this out.
So if I hold that shift key down I can smooth it back.
And what I want to do is start creating the plains of the front of the head and the sides.
I want this to be kind of flat up front and I want to build up a bit of the volume up top as well and
I'll use my clay strips to do that.
So I'm just going to try and build the basic shape of the head
and I'll go ahead and start building up the ears as well here.
Giving this a little bit more bulk I may have to use the grab brush as well but let me see what I can
do with the clay strips here.
I'll try the inflate on the ears.
I'm having a hard time getting the clay strips to work.
I'll just try the inflate
seems to be working a little bit better.
All right.
So I think using the inflate helped a bit with that
and I'll pull these out just a little bit.
All right so we're still very much in jest roughing things in here.
I want to press the control button and cut in just a bit on the ears just to give that little bit of
indentation there to begin that see how that works.
All right.
And I want to just define kind of the planes of the head.
There's really kind of an edge should come right around here and I'm going to see if I can define that
a little bit better just by using the pinch tool coming down here.
Like that maybe connecting to the top of the ears here and using the flattened brush to kind of flatten
out the front of the head there.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of the basic planes of the face here.
All right.
Let's take a look at this how we're doing.
It's not too bad.
I think that's about what I want.
I think I'll try and build up the job.
Just a hair here.
And this muscle here looks like instead of going back so far it should come down behind the ear here.
So I'll need to work on that.
Realizing that and it looks like back here these muscles really need to come down a little bit more
to the scapula.
Like this.
And for these muscles as well there's kind of a triangular shape that comes down like this.
We can maybe fill that in a bit.
All right.
I think we've got that basic shape down.
I'll go back to my default view here.
And when I'm doing work kind of close up like this I feel like the default camera is a little too wide
angle.
So what I'll do sometimes is go to the properties panel here by pressing the N key and scroll down you
can see this Lim's field in it.
And it's at 35 millimeters and that's a fairly wide angle lens for this kind of work.
So I'll change this to maybe like 45 or 50.
Let me try 50 first here.
And to me that gives a little bit more realistic view of the character when they're close up like this.
All right.
I think that's looking pretty good.
What I want to do is go ahead and start cutting in the eyes and trying to figure out where the nose
and the mouth are going to go.
And all of this will be adjusted of course as we go.
But I want to take a look at where the eyes should be.
Let me go back real quick to the character images here and hit the Z key and I'm going to go ahead and
use this sculpt to draw a brush.
Well I want to do is cut in a bit.
I'm going to tumble this around so I can see it.
And I want to maybe reduce the breast size and hold the control key.
I just want to cut in just a little bit here where the eyes are going to be let me try this.
You go not too much
just enough to get an eyeball in there when we need to.
There we go something like this.
I'll smooth that a bit with the shift key and also cut the end with the Control key.
All right so there's the basics.
The basis of the eyes here.
Let me rough in the nose real quick.
Just let me I'll continue with the sculpt draw reduced the strength quite a bit and let me just try
and get a nose hint in here.
Something like this.
OK.
And then let's work on the mouth.
Let's get to some sort of feature for the mouth here.
Now for the mouth I think.
Let me try and tug the edges of the mouth here out just a hair with the crab brush.
Don't need to do too much there.
And then I think I'm going to come back now that I know kind of where this should be.
I can see that here.
Now I'm going to go back to the default view here.
And let's
then use the scope to draw pretty small.
Let's try this and I'm going to cut in see if I can create a mouth area here.
Something like that.
And then I'm going to begin taking this and pulling it closed to let me just get a little bit more in
here.
I'm just using the Control key to cut in here and I just want a bit of an area that I can then close
down.
Let's try this come back to the grab opened another bit and let's begin geste closing this up a bit.
Let's go ahead and mask an area out.
I'm going to mask off the top real quick.
Mask this area
like that.
You can come down like that a bit.
And now if I go back to the grab brush I can a little more effectively move these up
so and then
maybe I'll invert the mask with control I maybe pull these down a bit too.
So they come down over it just a hair
something like that.
So we have kind of some geometry to begin the lips here.
And then I'll clear the mask with him.
All right.
So we have the beginnings now of our face to move forward though.
I think what I also want to do is bring in an image of my character here.
In this view over here what I like to do sometimes is to grab this corner here and just drag it down.
And then change this window here to the image editor which is here.
And then I can open up one of my images in here so I'll click on open and I'll open up the front view
here.
Like open.
And there he is in an image over here so now I have kind of a reference of what I'm doing here.
Now I could also split this up again if I wanted.
Sometimes you can do this.
I can move this up.
I don't really need that right there for now.
I can split this up again.
And bring in a side view here.
I'm in the middle mouse button click and drag on this bar and slide it over and then open and click
on the side view.
And now I've got my front end side view images here as I sculpt in here so I can kind of get a sense
of what I should be doing here.
Now before I begin doing anything else what I really need is some eyeballs to put in here to kind of
act as landmarks for the rest of the forehead eyes nose etc..
It's just good to have those eyes in there as you sculpt.
So in the next video what we'll do is we'll go ahead and model and eyeball to put in there as kind of
a landmark structure so we can begin sculpting the rest of the head.